
22104087D

HOUSE BILL NO. 787

Offered January 12, 2022

Prefiled January 11, 2022

higher

----------

Patron-- LaRock

----------

Committee Referral Pending

----------

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:

1. That the Code of Virginia is amended by adding a section    numbered 22.1-17.8 as follows:

ยง22.1-17.8. Training    or instruction on certain concepts declared unlawful and    discriminatory practice; model policies; local    compliance.

A. As used in 
 this section, "divisive concept" means any of the following concepts: (i) one race or 
 sex is inherently superior to another race or sex; (ii) the Commonwealth 
 or the United States is fundamentally racist or sexist; (iii) an 
 individual, by virtue of the individual's race or 
 sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or 
 unconsciously; (iv) an individual should be 
 discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of 
 the individual's race or sex; (v) an 
 individual's moral character is necessarily determined by the individual's race 
 or sex; (vi) an individual, by virtue of 
 the individual's race or sex, bears responsibility for actions committed in the 
 past by other members of the same race or sex; (vii) an 
 individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of 
 psychological distress on account of the individual's race or sex; or (viii) meritocracy 
 or traits, such as a hard work ethic, are 
 racist or sexist or were created by a particular race to oppress another race.

B. It is an 
 unlawful and discriminatory practice for any local school board or 
 employee or contractor thereof to train or 
 instruct any individual on any 
 divisive concept for the purpose of promoting and 
 encouraging such individual to adopt or believe such concept.

C. The Department shall 
 establish model policies for the prevention of the unlawful 
 and discriminatory practice set forth in subsection B.

D. Each local school 
 board shall adopt policies that are consistent with but may be more 
 comprehensive than the model policies established by the 
 Department pursuant to subsection C.
