
22103450D

HOUSE BILL NO. 1126

Offered January 12, 2022

----------

Patron-- Avoli

----------

Committee Referral Pending

----------

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:

1. That §§22.1-23.3 and 22.1-291.4 of the Code of Virginia are amended and    reenacted and that the Code of Virginia is amended by adding sections numbered    22.1-1.1 and 22.1-208.3 as follows:

§22.1-1.1.    Parental rights in public education.

In accordance with §   1-240.1, the parent of any student    enrolled in a public elementary or secondary school in the Commonwealth    has the right to:

1. Obtain and 
 review any educational material and 
 curriculum utilized in any class or course in which the student is enrolled;

2. Opt his child out of any 
 class or course activity, lesson, or reading 
 assignment or the use of any audiovisual 
 material or library book to which the parent objects;

3. Easily access a list of 
 the title and author of each book in each classroom and each library in the 
 school in which the student is enrolled;

4. In    accordance with §2.2-3707, receive notice of and attend    any public meeting of the school board governing the local school division in    which the student is enrolled;

5. In    accordance with §§22.1-90    and 22.1-92, review the annual    school division budget and expenditures;

6. Send his 
 child to attend school in a safe environment; 
 and

7. Be updated by the 
 school principal on any violent activity in the school in which 
 the student is enrolled.

§22.1-23.3. Treatment of transgender students; access to    certain facilities and accommodations; policies.

A. The Department of Education shall develop and make 
 available to each school board model policies concerning the treatment of 
 transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address 
 common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence-based 
 best practices and include information, guidance, procedures, and standards 
 relating to:

1. Compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws;

2. Maintenance of a safe and supportive learning environment 
 free from discrimination and harassment for all students;

3. Prevention of and response to bullying and harassment;

4. Maintenance of student records;

5. Identification of students;

6. Protection of student privacy and the confidentiality of 
 sensitive information;

7. Enforcement of sex-based dress codes; and

8. Student participation in sex-specific school activities and    events.    Activities and events do not include athletics.

and use of school facilities

B. Each school board shall adopt policies that are consistent 
 with but may be more comprehensive than the model policies developed by the 
 Department of Education pursuant to subsection A.

C. Each school board shall 
 adopt policies to require each student and school board employee 
 to have access to (i) restrooms, locker 
 rooms, and other 
 changing facilities in public school buildings that are shared only by members 
 of the same biological sex; (ii) lodging 
 accommodations during 
 school-sponsored trips that are shared only by 
 members of the same biological sex; and (iii) a 
 single-user restroom, locker room, or other changing facility in a public school 
 building, upon request, if the 
 school can reasonably accommodate such a request.

§22.1-208.3. Certain    instructional content prohibited.

No school board employee or individual 
 who provides any school-sponsored program shall teach or 
 promote to any student or school board employee the concept that (i) any race 
 is inherently superior or inferior; (ii) any 
 individual is racist, privileged, oppressive, biased, or responsible for 
 actions committed by others of the same race or skin color by virtue of the 
 individual's race or skin color; (iii) the 
 United States is fundamentally racist; or (iv) 
 market-based economics is inherently racist.

§22.1-291.4. Bullying and abusive work environments    prohibited.

A. As used in this section:

"Abusive conduct" means conduct of a school board 
 employee in the workplace that a reasonable person would find hostile and that 
 is severe enough to cause physical harm or psychological harm to another school 
 board employee based on a determination in which the following factors are 
 considered: the severity, nature, and frequency of the conduct and, when 
 applicable, the continuation of the conduct after a school board employee 
 requests that it cease or demonstrates outward signs of physical harm or 
 psychological harm in the face of the conduct. "Abusive conduct" 
 includes verbal or physical conduct that a reasonable person would find 
 threatening, intimidating, or humiliating; the gratuitous sabotage or undermining 
 of another school board employee's work performance; attempts to exploit 
 another school board employee's known psychological or physical vulnerability; 
 or repeated infliction of verbal abuse, such as the use of derogatory remarks, 
 insults, or epithets. "Abusive conduct" does not include (i) a single 
 act, unless it is especially severe, or (ii) conduct that the school board 
 proves with clear and convincing evidence is necessary for the furtherance of 
 its legitimate and lawful interests.

"Abusive work environment" means a workplace in a 
 school division in which abusive conduct occurs.

"Physical harm" means a material impairment of a 
 school board employee's physical health or bodily integrity, as documented by a 
 licensed physician or another licensed health care provider.

"Psychological harm" means a material impairment of 
 a school board employee's mental health, as documented by a licensed 
 psychologist, psychiatrist, or psychotherapist or another licensed mental 
 health care provider.

B. Each school board shall implement policies and procedures    to educate school board employees about bullying, as defined in §22.1-276.01,    and the need to create a school environment in which all individuals are treated with dignity    and respect and any incident of    bullying is taken seriously and handled in a robust manner.

bully-free

C. Each school board shall adopt policies to:

1. Prohibit abusive work environments in the school division;

2. Provide for the appropriate discipline of any school board 
 employee who contributes to an abusive work environment; and

3. Prohibit retaliation or reprisal against a school board 
 employee who alleges an abusive work environment or assists in the 
 investigation of an allegation of an abusive work environment.

D. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit a 
 school board's authority to adopt policies to prohibit any other type of 
 workplace conduct as the school board deems necessary.
