
22101538D

HOUSE BILL NO. 781

Offered January 12, 2022

Prefiled January 11, 2022

----------

Patron-- Williams

----------

Committee Referral Pending

----------

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:

1. That the Code of Virginia is amended by adding a section    numbered 22.1-208.03 as follows:

ยง22.1-208.03. Student    citizenship skills; certain instructional policies prohibited; parental rights;    disclosures; penalties; other remedies.

A. As used 
 in this section, "divisive concept" 
 means the concept that (i) one race, 
 religion, ethnicity, or sex is inherently superior to another race, religion, 
 ethnicity, or sex; (ii) an 
 individual, by virtue of the individual's race, religion, ethnicity, or sex, is 
 inherently racist, sexist, or 
 oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously; (iii) an 
 individual should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely 
 or partly because of the individual's race, religion, ethnicity, or sex; (iv) members 
 of one race, religion, ethnicity, or sex 
 cannot and should not attempt to treat others without respect to race, 
 religion, ethnicity, or sex; (v) an 
 individual's moral character is necessarily determined by the individual's 
 race, religion, ethnicity, or sex; (vi) an 
 individual, by virtue of the individual's race, 
 religion, ethnicity, or sex, bears 
 responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same 
 race, religion, ethnicity, or sex; (vii) an 
 individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of 
 psychological distress on account of the individual's race, religion, 
 ethnicity, or sex; (viii) meritocracy, punctuality, 
 proper language usage, free markets, and 
 traits such as strong work ethic are racist or sexist or were created by 
 members of a particular race to oppress members of another race; (ix) the 
 ideology of equity of outcomes is superior to the ideology of equality, a concept 
 enshrined in the Constitution of the United States, of 
 opportunities; (x) mathematics and scientific 
 empiricism are products of western civilization and thus are rooted in racism; (xi) the Commonwealth 
 or the United States is 
 fundamentally or systemically racist or sexist; or (xii) 
 capitalism, free markets, free industry, and other related economic 
 systems are inherently racist.

B. The Board 
 shall, in furtherance of the citizens 
 skills portion of the 5 C's in the Profile of a 
 Virginia Graduate, incorporate into each relevant Standard 
 of Learning and associated curriculum framework a 
 requirement that each student demonstrate the understanding 
 of:

1. The fundamental moral, 
 political, and intellectual foundations of the American experiment in 
 self-government, as well as the history, qualities, traditions, and 
 features of civic engagement in the United States;

2. The structure, function, 
 and processes of government institutions at the federal, state, and local 
 levels; and

3. The founding documents of    the United States, including the Declaration    of Independence, the United States    Constitution, the Federalist Papers,    including Essays 10 and 51, excerpts    from Alexis de Tocqueville's Democracy in America, the first debate between    Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass, and the    writings of the Founding Fathers of the United States.

C. No public 
 school teacher or other instructional staff member shall 
 be required to discuss any current 
 event or widely debated and currently controversial issue of public policy or 
 social affairs. Any such employee 
 who chooses to discuss any such event or issue in the scope of his instructional 
 duties shall, to the best of his ability, strive to explore 
 such issues from diverse and contending perspectives, without giving deference 
 to any one perspective.

D. Neither the Board or 
 Department nor any local school board shall (i) teach, 
 instruct, or train any school board employee, 
 contractor, or consultant, any public 
 elementary or secondary school student, or any 
 other individual or group to support, believe, endorse, 
 embrace, confess, act upon, or otherwise assent to a divisive 
 concept; (ii) 
 penalize or discriminate against any such individual or group for 
 refusing to support, believe, endorse, embrace, confess, act upon, or otherwise 
 assent to a divisive concept; or (iii) accept any 
 funding from any source for (a) the 
 development, purchase, or choice of curricula 
 or curricular materials that include divisive 
 concepts, pertain to social-emotional learning, or 
 otherwise violate any provision of this section or (b) the training or 
 professional development of teachers that 
 includes divisive concepts, pertains to social-emotional learning, 
 or otherwise violates any provision of this 
 section.

E. No school 
 board or employee thereof shall:

1. Require, incorporate 
 into any course or class, or award 
 course or class grades or credit, including 
 extra credit, for student (i) work for, 
 affiliation with, or service learning in association with any organization 
 engaged in lobbying for legislation at the local, state, or federal level or engaged in social 
 or public policy advocacy; (ii) political 
 activism, lobbying, or efforts to persuade members of the legislative or 
 executive branch at the local, state, or federal level to take specific actions 
 by direct communications; or (iii) 
 participation in any practicum or like activity involving social or 
 public policy advocacy. Nothing in this subdivision 
 shall be construed to prohibit or prevent any student 
 from learning the process of government by firsthand observation;

2. Teach or 
 incorporate into any course or class any divisive concept;

3. Be required 
 to engage in training, orientation, or therapy that presents any form of race 
 or sex stereotyping or blame on the basis of sex or race; or

4. Create a 
 position or hire a consultant with the job title of 
 equity director or diversity director or a substantially similar title and 
 with a job description that includes any activity 
 that would result in a violation of a 
 provision of this section.

F. The parent of each 
 student enrolled in a public elementary or secondary school has the right to be aware 
 of all curricula, instructional materials, lessons, 
 and other forms of instruction provided to his child and may request that the 
 student's teacher provide any such item for review. Each 
 teacher who receives such a request shall provide to the 
 parent an electronic or paper copy of the requested item 
 within 48 hours of the request.

G. Each public 
 school shall annually, no later than the July 1 preceding the 
 upcoming school year, prominently list on a publicly accessible portion 
 of its website:

1. All instructional materials 
 and activities to be used for student instruction at the school, organized by 
 grade and subject area. For the purpose of this 
 disclosure, "instructional materials" includes 
 textbooks, reading materials, videos, digital materials, websites, and other 
 online applications; ย"activities" includes 
 assemblies, guest lectures, and other educational events facilitated by school 
 board employees or outside individuals or organizations; and "activities" 
 does not include student presentations; and

2. All training, 
 documentation, and review and approval 
 processes performed by the principal or any 
 teacher or administrator in preparation for providing such 
 instructional materials and activities to 
 students.

H. Any 
 individual, including any school board member, who knowingly and intentionally 
 violates any provision of this section is guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor and, 
 in the case of a school board employee, may be 
 terminated or, as applicable, have his 
 license revoked or suspended in accordance with all relevant policies, 
 regulations, and laws.

I. In the    event that a local school board finds that a school board employee has    persistently, knowingly, and intentionally violated    any provision of this act, the parent of any    student affected by such violations may request and the local    school board shall provide a voucher in an    amount equal to all sums from any source that the local school board received for the    education of such student, and the    parent shall use such voucher to provide for the education    of his child in any setting set forth in subsection A of ยง   22.1-254.
