AN ACT
PROVIDING FOR REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO RACISM OR SEXISM
TRAININGS AT, AND DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION EFFORTS BY,
GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES AND ENTITIES, SCHOOL DISTRICTS, AND
PUBLIC POSTSECONDARY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:
Section 1. NEW SECTION. 25A.1 Race and sex stereotyping —
training prohibited by state and local governments.
1. For purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires:
a. '^Agency" or ^state agency" means the same as defined in
section 8A.101.
b. "^Governmental entity" means any unit of government in the
executive, legislative, or judicial branch of government; an
agency or political subdivision; any unit of state government,
including its political subdivisions; or any association or
other organization whose membership consists primarily of one
or more of any of the foregoing and whose budget is comprised
primarily of tax-generated revenue.
a. "^Governmental subdivision" means a county or city or
combination thereof.
d. "^Race or sex scapegoating" means the same as defined in
section 261H.7, subsection 1.
e. "^Race or sex stereotyping" means the same as defined in
section 261H.7, subsection 1.
House File 802, p. 2
f. "^Specific defined concepts" means the same as defined in
section 261H.7.
2. Each agency, governmental entity, or governmental
subdivision may continue training that fosters a workplace
and learning environment that is respectful of all employees.
However, the head of an agency, governmental entity, or
governmental subdivision shall ensure that any mandatory staff
training provided by an employee of an agency, governmental
entity, or governmental subdivision, or by a contractor hired
by the agency, governmental entity, or governmental subdivision
does not teach, advocate, encourage, promote, or act upon
stereotyping, scapegoating, or prejudice toward others on
the basis of demographic group membership or identity. This
subsection shall not be construed as preventing an employee or
contractor who provides mandatory training from responding to
questions regarding stereotyping, scapegoating, or prejudice
raised by participants in the training.
3. Each agency, governmental entity, or governmental
subdivision shall prohibit its employees from discriminating
against other employees by any characteristic protected under
the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, as
amended, and applicable state law.
4. This section shall not be construed to do any of the
following;
a. Prevent an agency, governmental entity, or governmental
subdivision from promoting racial, cultural, ethnic, or
intellectual diversity or inclusiveness, provided such efforts
are consistent with the provisions of this section.
b. Create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural,
enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the state
of Iowa, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
employees, or agents, or any other person.
c. Prohibit a state or federal court or agency of competent
jurisdiction from ordering a training or remedial action
containing discussions of specific defined concepts as a
remedial action due to a finding of discrimination, including
discrimination based on race or sex.
d. Prohibit the use of curriculum that teaches the topics
of sexism, slavery, racial oppression, racial segregation.
House File 802, p. 3
or racial discrimination, including topics relating to the
enactment and enforcement of laws resulting in sexism, racial
oppression, segregation, and discrimination.
Sec. 2. NEW SECTION. 261H.7 Race and sex stereotyping —
training by institution prohibited.
1. For purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires;
a. ^Race or sex scapegoating" means assigning fault, blame,
or bias to a race or sex, or to members of a race or sex
because of their race or sex, or claiming that, consciously or
unconsciously, and by virtue of persons' race or sex, members
of any race are inherently racist or are inherently inclined to
oppress others, or that members of a sex are inherently sexist
or inclined to oppress others.
b. "^Race or sex stereotyping" means ascribing character
traits, values, moral and ethical codes, privileges, status,
or beliefs to a race or sex, or to an individual because of the
individual's race or sex.
a. "^Specific defined concepts" includes all of the
following:
(1) That one race or sex is inherently superior to another
race or sex.
(2) That the United States of America and the state of Iowa
are fundamentally or systemically racist or sexist.
(3) That an individual, solely because of the individual's
race or sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive,
whether consciously or unconsciously.
(4) That an individual should be discriminated against
or receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of the
individual's race or sex.
(5) That members of one race or sex cannot and should not
attempt to treat others without respect to race or sex.
(6) That an individual's moral character is necessarily
determined by the individual's race or sex.
(7) That an individual, by virtue of the individual's race
or sex, bears responsibility for actions committed in the past
by other members of the same race or sex.
(8) That any individual should feel discomfort, guilt,
anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on account
House File 802, p. 4
of that individual's race or sex.
(9) That meritocracy or traits such as a hard work ethic
are racist or sexist, or were created by a particular race to
oppress another race.
(10) Any other form of race or sex scapegoating or any other
form of race or sex stereotyping.
2. Each public institution of higher education may continue
training that fosters a workplace and learning environment that
is respectful of all employees and students. However, the
president, vice presidents, deans, department directors, or any
other administrator of a public institution of higher education
shall ensure that any mandatory staff or student training
provided by an employee of the institution or by a contractor
hired by the institution does not teach, advocate, act upon,
or promote specific defined concepts. This subsection shall
not be construed as preventing an employee or contractor who
provides mandatory training from responding to questions
regarding specific defined concepts raised by participants in
the training.
3. Institution diversity and inclusion efforts shall
discourage students of a public institution of higher education
from discriminating against another by political ideology or
any characteristic protected under the federal Civil Rights
Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, as amended, and applicable
state law. Each public institution of higher education shall
prohibit its employees from discriminating against students and
employees by political ideology or any characteristic protected
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352,
as amended, and applicable state law.
4. This section shall not be construed to do any of the
following;
a. Inhibit or violate the first amendment rights of students
or faculty, or undermine a public institution of higher
education's duty to protect to the fullest degree intellectual
freedom and free expression. The intellectual vitality of
students and faculty shall not be infringed under this section.
b. Prevent a public institution of higher education
from promoting racial, cultural, ethnic, intellectual, or
academic diversity or inclusiveness, provided such efforts are
House File 802, p. 5
consistent with the provisions of this section, chapter 216,
and other applicable law.
c. Prohibit discussing specific defined concepts as part of
a larger course of academic instruction.
d. Create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural,
enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the state
of Iowa, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
employees, or agents, or any other person.
e. Prohibit a state or federal court or agency of competent
jurisdiction from ordering a training or remedial action
containing discussions of specific defined concepts as a
remedial action due to a finding of discrimination, including
discrimination based on race or sex.
f. Prohibit the use of curriculum that teaches the topics
of sexism, slavery, racial oppression, racial segregation,
or racial discrimination, including topics relating to the
enactment and enforcement of laws resulting in sexism, racial
oppression, segregation, and discrimination.
Sec. 3. NEW SECTION. 279.74 Race and sex stereotyping —
training and curriculum prohibited.
1. For purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires:
a. "^Hace or sex scapegoating" means the same as defined in
section 261H.7.
b. "^Race or sex stereotyping" means the same as defined in
section 261H.7.
c. "^Specific defined concepts" means the same as defined in
section 261H.7.
2. Each school district may continue training that fosters
a workplace and learning environment that is respectful of all
employees and students. However, the superintendent of each
school district shall ensure that any curriculum or mandatory
staff or student training provided by an employee of the school
district or by a contractor hired by the school district does
not teach, advocate, encourage, promote, or act upon specific
stereotyping and scapegoating toward others on the basis of
demographic group membership or identity. This subsection
shall not be construed as preventing an employee or contractor
who teaches any curriculum or who provides mandatory training
House Pile 802, p. 6
from responding to questions regarding specific defined
concepts raised by participants in the training.
3. School district diversity and inclusion efforts shall
discourage students of the school district from discriminating
against another by political ideology or any characteristic
protected under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L.
No. 88-352, as amended, and applicable state law. Each school
district shall prohibit its employees from discriminating
against students or employees by political ideology or any
characteristic protected under the federal Civil Rights Act of
1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, as amended, and applicable state law.
4. This section shall not be construed to do any of the
following;
a. Inhibit or violate the first amendment rights of students
or faculty, or undermine a school district's duty to protect to
the fullest degree intellectual freedom and free expression.
The intellectual vitality of students and faculty shall not be
infringed under this section.
b. Prevent a school district from promoting racial,
cultural, ethnic, intellectual, or academic diversity or
inclusiveness, provided such efforts are consistent with the
provisions of this section, chapter 216, and other applicable
law.
c. Prohibit discussing specific defined concepts as part of
a larger course of academic instruction.
d. Create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural,
enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the state
of Iowa, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
employees, or agents, or any other person.
e. Prohibit a state or federal court or agency of competent
jurisdiction from ordering a training or remedial action
containing discussions of specific defined concepts as a
remedial action due to a finding of discrimination, including
discrimination based on race or sex.
f. Prohibit the use of curriculum that teaches the topics
of sexism, slavery, racial oppression, racial segregation,
or racial discrimination, including topics relating to the
enactment and enforcement of laws resulting in sexism, racial
oppression, segregation, and discrimination.
