
MISSISSIPPI LEGISLATURE

2022 Regular Session

To: Education

By: Senator(s) McDaniel

Senate Bill 2171

AN ACT TO PROHIBIT THE TEACHING OF "CRITICAL RACE THEORY"
IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING AND PUBLIC CHARTER SCHOOLS;
TO PROHIBIT THE EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC FUNDS IN VIOLATION OF THIS ACT; AND FOR
RELATED PURPOSES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE
LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI:

Dignity  and nondiscrimination in public education.  (1)  It is the intent of the Legislature  that administrators, faculty members, other employees, and students at public  schools, including public charter schools and institutions of higher education,  respect the dignity of others, acknowledge the right of others to express  differing opinions, and foster and defend intellectual honesty, freedom of  inquiry and instruction, and freedom of speech and association.

SECTION 1.

(2)  The Mississippi Legislature
finds that tenets outlined in subsection (3)(a) of this section, often found in
"critical race theory," undermined the objectives outlined in
subsection (1) of this section and exacerbate and inflame divisions on the
basis of sex, race, ethnicity, religion, color, national origin, or other
criteria in ways contrary to the unity of the nation and the well-being of the State
of Mississippi and its citizens.

(3)  In accordance with Section
6, Article IX of the Constitution of the State of Mississippi and the Mississippi
Code:

(a)  No public
institution of higher learning, school district or public school, including a
public charter school, shall direct or otherwise compel students to personally
affirm, adopt, or adhere to any of the following tenets:

(i)  That any sex,
race, ethnicity, religion, color or national origin is inherently superior or inferior;

(ii)  That individuals
should be adversely treated on the basis of their sex, race, ethnicity, religion,
color or national origin; or

(iii)  That
individuals, by virtue of sex, race, ethnicity, religion, color or national
origin, are inherently responsible for the actions committed in the past by
other members of the same sex, race, ethnicity, religion, color or national
origin.

(b)  No distinction or
classification of students shall be made on account of race or color.

(c)  No course of
instruction or unit of study directing or otherwise compelling students to personally
affirm, adopt or adhere to any of the tenets identified in paragraph (a) of
this subsection shall be used or introduced in any institution of higher
education, any school district, or any public school, including a public
charter school.

(4)  Nothing in this section
should be construed to prohibit the required collection or reporting of
demographic data by public schools or public institutions of higher education.

(5)  Prohibition on the expenditure  of monies for certain purposes.  No monies shall be expended by the State Board  of Education, any entity under the State Board of Education's jurisdiction, or  any school district, public school, public charter school, or public  institution of higher learning for any purpose prohibited in the Mississippi  Code, including specifically the prohibition against teaching critical race theory  proscribed by this act.

(6)  Severability.  The  provisions of this act are hereby declared to be severable, and if any provision  of this act or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance  is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not affect the  validity of the remaining portions of this act.

SECTION 2.  This act  shall take effect and be in force from and after July 1, 2022.
