FIRST REGULAR SESSION
HOUSE COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR

HOUSE BILL NO. 952
101ST GENERAL ASSEMBLY
2087H.02C

DANA RADEMAN MILLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To amend chapter 170, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to the 1619 Project
in school districts and charter schools.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

2
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

Section A. Chapter 170, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
known as section 170.352, to read as follows:
170.352. 1. Declaratory statement. In accordance with Article IX, Section 1(a) of
the Missouri Constitution, which states that "A general diffusion of knowledge and
intelligence being essential to the preservation of the rights and liberties of the people," the
general assembly hereby enacts the following reform for Missouri school history curricula.
2. Definition. As used in this section, "curriculum implementing critical race
theory" shall include any curriculum that does any of the following:
(1) Identifies people or groups of people, entities, or institutions in the United States
as inherently, immutably, or systemically sexist, racist, anti-LGBT, bigoted, biased,
privileged, or oppressed; and
(2) Employs immutable, inherited, or typically continuing characteristics such as
race, income, appearance, religion, ancestry, sexual orientation, or gender identity to:
(a) Perpetuate stereotypes; and
(b) Assign blame for societal problems or ills to categories of living persons based
on any such stereotypes or characteristics; or
(3) Classifies persons into groups for the purpose of targeting only certain groups
for education, formation, indoctrination, or viewpoint transformation, other than
separation of students by biological sex where appropriate and conducive for statemandated sex education instruction.
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is intended
to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

HCS HB 952
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54

2

3. Exemplary programs. Curricula implementing critical race theory include, but
are not limited to, the 1619 Project initiative of the New York Times, the Learning for
Justice Curriculum of the Southern Poverty Law Center, We Stories, programs of
Educational Equity Consultants, BLM at School, Teaching for Change, Zinn Education
Project, and any other similar, predecessor, or successor curricula.
4. No state agency, school district, charter school, online instruction funded in any
manner by the Missouri legislature, or personnel or agent of such state agency, school
district, charter school, or online instruction shall teach, use, or provide for use by any
pupil any curriculum, instructional materials, or assignments designed to teach
components of critical race theory as part of any curriculum, course syllabi, or instruction
in any course or program of study.
5. If the state board of education determines that a publicly funded local education
agency or online program of instruction has violated this section, the state board shall
notify the entity of its violation.
6. If the entity fails to comply with this section within thirty days of notification of
its failure to comply under this section, the state board shall direct the department of
elementary and secondary education to withhold a maximum of ten percent of the monthly
distribution of state formula funding to the education entity. Once the state board
determines that the education entity has complied with this section, the department of
elementary and secondary education shall restore the distribution of the funding to its
original amount before the reduction was made.
7. If the attorney general determines that a state-supported two-year or four-year
institution of higher education has violated this section, the attorney general shall notify
the institution of its violation.
8. If a state-supported two-year or four-year institution of higher education fails
to comply with this section within thirty days of notification of its failure to comply under
this section, the attorney general may direct the department of higher education and
workforce development to withhold the maximum of ten percent of the distribution of state
funding to the institution.
9. Once the attorney general determines that a state-supported two-year or fouryear institution of higher education has complied with this section, the attorney general
shall restore the distribution of state funding for the institution to its original amount
before the reduction was made.
10. This section shall not be construed to inhibit or violate the first amendment
rights of students or faculty, or undermine a public institution of higher education's duty
to protect to the fullest degree intellectual freedom and free expression, and the intellectual

HCS HB 952

3

55 vitality of students and faculty shall not be infringed; or prevent a public institution of
56 higher education from promoting racial, cultural, ethnic, intellectual, or academic diversity
57 or inclusiveness, provided such efforts are consistent with provisions of this section.
T

