
SENATE, No. 664

STATE OF NEW JERSEY

220th LEGISLATURE

PRE-FILED FOR INTRODUCTION IN THE 2022 SESSION

Sponsored by:

Senator  STEVEN V. OROHO

District 24 (Morris, Sussex and Warren)

SYNOPSIS

Prohibits public employers from requiring and funding
training courses that pass blame or judgment on basis of race, ethnicity, or
sex.

CURRENT VERSION OF TEXT

Introduced Pending Technical Review by Legislative
Counsel.

An Act concerning required trainings for public employees and  supplementing chapter 6 of Title 11A of the Revised Statutes.

Be It  Enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of  the State of New Jersey:

1.    a.  A public employer
shall not require an employee to complete a training program that encourages
participants to place blame or pass judgment on individuals on the basis of
their race, ethnicity, or sex.  The provisions of this subsection shall not be
interpreted to preclude a public employer from requiring an employee to
complete a training program on sexual harassment.

b.    A public employer shall
not expend funds to create an employee training program that encourages participants
to place blame or pass judgment on individuals on the basis of their race,
ethnicity, or sex.  The provisions of this subsection shall not be interpreted
to preclude a public employer from expending funds to create a training program
on sexual harassment.

c.     The State Treasurer
shall submit a report by December 31 of each year to the Governor, and to the
Legislature pursuant to section 2 of P.L.1991, c.164 (C.52:14-19.1), regarding
the number of public employers that are in compliance with the provisions of
this section.

d.    As used in this section:

"Place blame or pass judgment
on individuals on the basis of their race, ethnicity, or sex" means any of the
following concepts:

(1)   one race, ethnic group,
or sex is inherently morally or intellectually superior to another race, ethnic
group, or sex;

(2)   an individual, by virtue
of the individual's race, ethnicity, or sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or
oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously;

(3)   an individual should be
invidiously discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely or partly
because of the individual's race, ethnicity, or sex;

(4)   an individual's moral
character is determined by the individual's race, ethnicity, or sex;

(5)   an individual, by virtue
of the individual's race, ethnicity, or sex, bears responsibility for the
actions committed by other members of the same race, ethnicity, or sex;

(6)   an individual should
feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of psychological distress
because of the individual's race, ethnicity, or sex; and

(7)   meritocracy or traits
such as a hard work ethic are racist or sexist or were created by members of a
particular race, ethnic group, or sex to oppress members of another race,
ethnic group, or sex.

"Public employer" means the
State of New Jersey and any county, municipality, board of education, or other
political subdivision thereof, and any agency, authority, or instrumentality of
the foregoing.

2.    This act shall take
effect immediately.

STATEMENT

This bill prohibits a public
employer from requiring an employee to complete a training program that
encourages participants to place blame or pass judgment on individuals on the
basis of their race, ethnicity, or sex.  This bill further prohibits a public
employer from expending funds to create an employee training program that
encourages participants to place blame or pass judgment on individuals on the
basis of their race, ethnicity, or sex.  Nothing in the bill would prohibit a
public employer from requiring an employee to complete a training program on
sexual harassment or from spending funds to create a training program on sexual
harassment.           For purposes of the bill, the term "place blame or pass
judgment on individuals on the basis of their race, ethnicity, or sex" means
any of the following concepts:

·         one race, ethnic group, or sex is inherently morally or  intellectually superior to another race, ethnic group, or sex;

·         an individual, by virtue of the individual's race, ethnicity, or  sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or  unconsciously;

·         an individual should be invidiously discriminated against or  receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of the individual's race,  ethnicity, or sex;

·         an individual's moral character is determined by the individual's  race, ethnicity, or sex;

·         an individual, by virtue of the individual's race, ethnicity, or  sex, bears responsibility for the actions committed by other members of the  same race, ethnicity, or sex;

·         an individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any  other form of psychological distress because of the individual's race,  ethnicity, or sex; and

·         meritocracy or traits such as a hard work ethic are racist or  sexist or were created by members of a particular race, ethnic group, or sex to  oppress members of another race, ethnic group, or sex.

A "public employer" is also defined
under the bill to mean the State of New Jersey and any county, municipality,
board of education, or other political subdivision as well as any agency,
authority, or instrumentality under their jurisdiction.

The State Treasurer would be
required to submit a report by December 31 of each year to the Governor and the
Legislature regarding the number of public employers that are in compliance
with the provisions of this bill.
